#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
% use the biblatex-chicago package
\usepackage[authordate,backend=biber]{biblatex-chicago}
\let\cite\textcite

% add the bib file
\addbibresource{D:/Drive/LaTeX/bibliography.bib} 
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_author "Bastiaan Quast"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Bitcoin in Development and the Aid Sector
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Bastiaan Quast
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The internet impacts virtually everything around us, the first half of this
 decade has finally seen that impact extend to the financial sector.
 we discuss two recent innovations in financial technology - Bitcoin and
 crowdfunding - in relation to the aid sector.
 Many aspects of Bitcoin are very enabling, which provides the development
 sector with a powerful tool for the achievement of its aims.
 In this context we discuss i.a.
 remittances, mobile transactions, and barter currencies in times of financial
 crises.
 Furthermore, potential uses in the development sector itself that we discuss
 are, accountability via the public ledger system, a lower threshold to
 online funding, due to the pre-paid nature, and a lesser dependence on
 local governments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bitcoin is a online decentralised monetary system, which aims to cut out
 many of the middle men in the financial system, specifically governments
 and banks.
 The system is set up to be completely anonymous and decentralised, it originate
s from a white paper "Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system" published
 under the pseudonym 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "nakamoto2008bitcoin"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This article focusses on potential uses of Bitcoin in development and the
 aid industry, a discussion of the merit of the existance of the Bitcoin
 system is outside the scope of this article, we observe that for better
 or worse, the system now exists and will exist, although Bitcoin might
 be overtaken by even other systems, for the purposes of this article, we
 are primarily concerned with the fact that an anonymous internet-based
 transaction mechanism exists.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ownership of bitcoins is registered in the public ledger called the
 blockchain, and can be proven by publishing a signature online, using a
 secret key.
 This means that transactions can be conducted from any computer or smartphone
 with internet access without a third party being needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are many uses for a monetary system of this type, in this article
 we will focus on the uses particular to the aid sector.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the next section, we discuss the mechanics behind the Bitcoin system
 in some more detail, with examples specific to development, as well the
 value of Bitcoin.
 Subsequently, we list some of the key potential uses of Bitcoin in the
 development.
 In section four we discuss some new possibility for the aid sector in particula
r.
 We conclude with a discussion on the key challenges for widespread use
 of bitcoin in development and some recent innovations with potential uses
 in the development sector.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
How does Bitcoin work?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is useful at this point to make the distinction between Bitcoin (capital
 B), which is the entire system, and bitcoin (miniscule b), which is the
 dominant unit of account, similar to a Swiss franc or a euro.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All transactions in the bitcoin system are stored in a public ledger, called
 the blockchain.
 It includes the amount, the sending and receiving addresses, as well as
 an optional message.
 Since all transactions are public (thought the addresses are anonymous),
 it enables indefinite tracking of flows.
 This can increase accountability and prevent leakages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Bitcoin Value
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the context of Bitcoin, the discussion of where it values derives from
 and the fact that is it not legal tender.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The discussion on it value is a complicated one, outside of the scope of
 this article.
 We will however make two observations:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Bitcoin has sustained a positive and large value over a sustained period
 of time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Most transaction unites in monetary systems, have no intrinsic value, fiat
 currencies, but even gold has very little
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a further discussion of Bitcoin and its value see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ron2013quantitative"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The issue of legal tender is quite different.
 Legal tender essentially means a state imposing a method of transaction
 (that it controls) within its territory.
 This has the positive effect that it unifies accounting.
 However, if the state does not manage the currency in a credible fashion,
 then this will lead to hyperinflation.
 This in term will lead to capital flight.
 A recent and reoccurring example in Argentina, which, at the time of writing,
 taxes all foreign credit card purchases with an additional 35%.
 By having a system without a single owner, this is rendered impossible.
 The Argentinian case further illustrate how Bitcoin can be used in times
 of economic crisis.
 During each of the currency crises that hit Argentina during the last decades,
 barter currencies arose.
 These provide a more stable means of holding value than government sanctioned
 money.
 By having a barter currency with a value outside the country (which can
 be quoted in US dollar), additional stability can be added.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Bitcoin in Development
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are many (potential) uses of Bitcoin in the development sector.
 An obvious first for a truly global and location independent monetary system
 is remittances.
 Transactions are virtually free-of-cost, and distance plays no role.
 The only requirement is that there exists a market where Bitcoin can be
 traded for local currency, which holds for most currencies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, even if such a market would not exist, there is to potential for
 communities to accept bitcoin as tender, in addition to existing forms.
 In particular, mobile payment systems using either smartphones or sms-based
 systems would make this particularly convenient.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Bitcoin in Aid
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
traceability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
disbursement problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
asking for direct funding, i.e.
 not through aid agency
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
lesser political liability, link to:
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
subversive funding (high powered social media)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
problem of required internet access
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Crowdfunding and Bitcoin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A further recent innovation in the finance industry is crowdfunding.
 In a crowdfunding campaign an idea is described and the public is asked
 to 'donate' an amount in order to fund the realisation.
 Depending on the amount 'donated' this can unlock certain perks, such as:
 a thank you on social media, or a physical or digital copy of the final
 product, such as a video game or, a smartwatch (Pebble).
 Many of these campaigns have goals that involve social development, such
 as the Keepod campaign.
 Which aimed to create USB key which contains an operating system that can
 be loaded direct from the USB key, so that people who do not own a computer
 can run their own system on any computer.
 Contributors in this campaign could donate money, for each key that was
 ordered, an additional key was given to slum dwellers in Nairobi.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Generally these campaigns are organised through established platforms such
 a Kickstarter of Indiegogo.
 There are several reasons for this, firstly, payment if often via creditcard,
 which means that the institution has to be trustworthy.
 Since Bitcoin operate on a sort of pre-paid model, such as PayPal, it enables
 the customer to contribute without surrendering sensible information.
 A good example of a crowdfunding initiative that uses Bitcoin, is called
 "Bitcoin against Ebola", which provides books and lunches for children
 living in affected areas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A variation on crowdfunding is the relatively recent phenomenon of internet
 tipping, like it's physical world counterpart, a good dead, idea, or comment
 is rewarded (after the fact) with a tip.
 By operating on a pre-paid model, tips can be given to total strangers,
 who otherwise would perhaps not be trusted with this kind sensible information.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Challenges and Future
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What are the challenges
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
acceptance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
ways to enable widespread use (sms transactions)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What lies ahead
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
alternative cryptocurrencies, reduce dependence
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "D:/Drive/LaTeX/bibliography"
options "plainnat"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
printbibliography
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
